3-30 model: 
    things changed: 
        1. remove sparsity bit loss (the images are not sparse so close to the diagonal)
        2. clean code base (seperate files for model.py, schedule.py)
        3. when you change the target from noise prediction to x0 prediction, the noise schedule becomes very important 
           this is because hte loss is very high at early stages and you want to make sure the model doesn't overcorrect on the noisiest steps
           from SR3 paper: "We expect both of these variants to work reasonably well if p(γ) is modified to account
           for the scale of the loss function." 
           - our solution is to use cosine noise scheduler from Nichol and Dariwal 
           - then use min SNR clamping strategy on noise (hang et. al)
            this technique is useful becasue we are predicitng x0 instead of eta, and in the supplementals they say that the 
            error between x0 - x_hat(xt, t) is proportional to the signal to noise ratio
        4. chip auxillary loss is now weighted by gamma so we are more strict at lower noise levels

        * the issue with this run was that the samples are coming out too dark

3-31: 
    things changed 
        1. we are going back to the original formulation of SR3, same uniform noise schedule and DDPM
        2. no clamping either, and we are repredicting eps rather than xt
        3. this seems to work best and we should not change it.


4-5: 
    we're trying to have multiple outputs simultaneously in the diffusion model 
    lots of success with two phase outputs which is the first commit in multi-output branch
    harder task with 4 phase output because one phase seems to collapse while another over compensates
    we're doing parallel training in the decoder with cross attention -- this really helps!

4-6: 
   we need to do a major refactor so that the model can output the entire chromosome. this means that we cannot simply
   restrict to the sliding window along the diagonal. however, those are the most important contacts, so we will 
   leave the overlapping diagonal sliding windows in the training set as they are. however, we will need to add 
   at least the same number of training examples that are from off the diagonal. we need to change the dataloader
   to do the following
   1. randomly sample training samples from the off diagonal (upper triangular part)
      with weights inversely proportional to the distance of the crop from the diagonal. (we are more about
      the model learning images closer to the diagonal than far away)

   1. we should not be converting to upper triangular vectors anymore for any of the input or output samples
      the model is already equipped to handle this, since upper triangular vectors get unraveled 
      into a full matrix in the model anyways.we just need to change Dataloader and training, sampling procedure
 
   3. now chip seq processing needs to change. we can't only rely on row attention anymore. we have to 
   start by taking the outer product of chip_i and chip_j, where each is a B, 64, c_msa dimention vector.
   then take the outer product, then axial attention with pair bias, then feed it to the linear layer + adanorm


